Getting started (#198)
wiremind/remoulade: docs/source/getting_started.rst

.. include:: global.rst

Getting Started
========

This part of the docs will walk you through the main features of remoulade.

Prerequisites
------

To follow this guide, you will need to set up a new virtual environment and install Remoulade and Requests_::

  $ pip install -U 'remoulade[rabbitmq]' requests

.. _requests: http://docs.python-requests.org

You will also need to install RabbitMQ_, or use Docker_ to run a RabbitMQ image::

  $ docker run -d --name rabbitmq -p 5672:5672 rabbitmq

.. _Docker: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/

> Actors

Author: `Project setup` maybe ?
What do you think of something like this as plan:
- Prerequisites
- Project setup
- Adding an Actor
- Using a Group of tasks
- Sequential Piping of tasks
- Next Steps (we will see how we manage this part, if we use another page or just continue like this)

------

Let's start by writing a simple function that uses weather-api_ to get the weather for a location and writes it into a file :

.. _weather-api: https://github.com/robertoduessmann/weather-api

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: get_weather.py

    import requests

    def get_weather(city):
        url = f"https://goweather.herokuapp.com/weather/{city}"

        response = requests.get(url).json()

        file = open('weather', 'a')
        text = f"{city}:\n{response['temperature']}\n"
        file.write(text)
        file.close()

This script simply gets the weather for a city and writes the city and the temperature into a file.

> Running this function gives the expected output::

Reviewer: I just ran it in command line like for the other examples but didn't explicitly wrote it here :

```
$ python
>>> from get_weather import get_weather
>>> get_weather("Paris")
```

I think it is clearer to execute it each time in command line to avoid changing the code and confusing readers.
I'll change the name of the file though.

   def load_multiple(text_list):
       ...

   result_backend = RedisBackend()
   rabbitmq_broker = RabbitmqBroker(url="/")
   rabbitmq_broker.add_middleware(Results(backend=result_backend))
   remoulade.set_broker(rabbitmq_broker)
   remoulade.declare_actors([extract, transform, load, load_multiple])

Note that in order to be able to gather the results from ``transform``, we have to specify "store_results=True" in the actor decorator.
A RedisBackend was also instantiated and added to the broker, and ``load_multiple`` was declared to the broker.

Our objective can now be achieved by running the following commands::

   >>> from get_weather import extract, transform, load_multiple
   >>> from remoulade import pipeline, group
   >>> cities = ['Paris', 'Lyon', 'Marseille', 'Lille', 'Bastia']
   >>> grp = group([extract.message(city) | transform.message() for city in cities])
   >>> pipe = grp | load_multiple.message()
   >>> pipe.run()

The worker terminal now shows the pipeline has been successfully run and the correct data has been written into the weather file::

   Paris:
   +22 °C
   Lyon:
   21 °C
   Marseille:
   +25 °C
   Lille:
   21 °C
   Bastia:
   +31 °C

> 

Author: Other topics for after:
- scheduler
- superbowl
No need to do that right now, but if you are bored it's an idea

.. include:: global.rst

Getting Started
========

This part of the docs will walk you through the main features of remoulade.

Prerequisites
------

To follow this guide, you will need to set up a new virtual environment and install Remoulade and Requests_::

  $ pip install -U 'remoulade[rabbitmq]' requests

.. _requests: http://docs.python-requests.org

You will also need to install RabbitMQ_, or use Docker_ to run a RabbitMQ image::

  $ docker run -d --name rabbitmq -p 5672:5672 rabbitmq

.. _Docker: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/

Actors
------

Let's start by writing a simple function that uses weather-api_ to get the weather for a location and writes it into a file :

.. _weather-api: https://github.com/robertoduessmann/weather-api

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: get_weather.py

    import requests

    def get_weather(city):
        url = f"https://goweather.herokuapp.com/weather/{city}"

        response = requests.get(url).json()

        file = open('weather', 'a')

>         text = f"{city}:\n{response['temperature']}\n"

Author: remove the new line between the city and the temperature

   remoulade get_weather

After running this command, you will see these lines::

   [2021-07-07 16:08:19,253] [MainThread] [remoulade] [INFO] Worker is ready for action.
   [2021-07-07 16:08:19,337] [Thread-3] [remoulade.worker.WorkerThread] [INFO] Started Actor get_weather / 686f9577-d5d9-4853-a2fb-66bde2e6009
   [2021-07-07 16:08:20,531] [Thread-3] [remoulade.worker.WorkerThread] [INFO] Finished Actor get_weather / 686f9577-d5d9-4853-a2fb-66bde2e60098 after 1193.28ms.

These lines indicate that workers have spawned and that one of them has ran the function.

Using a Group of tasks
------

In order to run multiple actors at once and gather their results or wait for all of them to finish, you can use |group|.
For example, we can use it to get weather data for multiple cities at once::

   >>> from get_weather import get_weather
   >>> from remoulade import group
   >>> cities = ['Paris', 'Tokyo', 'Washington', 'Brasília', 'Johannesburg']
   >>> get_weather_group = group([get_weather.message(city) for city in cities])

>    >>> get_weather_group.run()

Reviewer: It doesn't work without Redis

       file = open("weather_db.txt", "a")
       for text in text_list:
           file.write(text)
       file.close()

Our get_weather file should now look like this :

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: get_weather.py
   :emphasize-lines: 4, 5, 28, 30, 31, 33

   import requests
   import remoulade
   from remoulade.brokers.rabbitmq import RabbitmqBroker
   from remoulade.results.backends import RedisBackend
   from remoulade.results import Results

   @remoulade.actor
   def extract_city(city):
      ...

   @remoulade.actor()
   def transform_city(response):
       ...

   @remoulade.actor
   def load_city(text):
      ...

   @remoulade.actor
   def load_cities(city_lines):
       ...

   result_backend = RedisBackend()
   rabbitmq_broker = RabbitmqBroker(url="/")
   result_time_limit_ms = 10 * 60 * 1000 # 10 mn
   rabbitmq_broker.add_middleware(Results(backend=result_backend, store_results=True, result_ttl=result_time_limit_ms))
   remoulade.set_broker(rabbitmq_broker)
   remoulade.declare_actors([extract_city, transform_city, load_city, load_cities])

You will need to restart your Remoulade workers once again after adding this new function.

> Note that we set a time limit, and that in order to be able to gather the results from ``transform_city``, we have to specify "store_results=True" in the Results instantiation.

Author: ```suggestion
Two new things are happening here. First we instantiate a |RedisResBackend| that will allow us to store our data in Redis. The we add a |Results| middleware that will store our results in this backend, with a defined time limit.
```
@antoinerabany what the point of the Results middleware with `store_results=False`?

A RedisBackend was also instantiated and added to the broker, and ``load_cities`` was declared to the broker.

Our objective can now be achieved by running the following commands::

   >>> from get_weather import extract_city, transform_city, load_cities
   >>> from remoulade import pipeline, group
   >>> cities = ['Paris', 'Lyon', 'Marseille', 'Lille', 'Bastia']
   >>> grp = group([extract_city.message(city) | transform_city.message() for city in cities])
   >>> weather_etl_pipeline = grp | load_cities.message()
   >>> weather_etl_pipeline.run()

The worker terminal now shows the pipeline has been successfully run and the correct data has been written into the weather file::

>    Paris:

Author: remove or at least put the appropriate line break (and cities). But I think we can remove this part

.. include:: global.rst

Getting Started
===============

This part of the docs will walk you through the main features of remoulade by building a simple feature that will fetch temperatures from different cities using weather-api_ and store them.

By the end of this tutorial you will be able to do the following:

* create a remoulade worker and send it tasks asynchronously
* create a group of tasks and execute them in parallel
* create a pipeline of tasks that will sequentially process data
* use a mix of pipeline and group to take advantage of both parallel and sequential processing
* use the remoulade scheduler to periodically run tasks

> * use SuperBowl to monitor and manage your tasks

Author: add link to superbowl, or maybe link each line to its chapter

.. _requests: http://docs.python-requests.org
.. _Docker: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/

Adding an Actor
---------------

In this guide, we will build a simple feature that will fetch temperatures from different cities using weather-api_ and store them. For simplicity purposes, we will save our data into a file rather than a database.

.. _weather-api: https://github.com/robertoduessmann/weather-api

Let's start by writing a simple function that fetches the temperature for a single city :

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: get_weather.py

    import requests

    def get_weather(city):
        url = f"https://goweather.herokuapp.com/weather/{city}"

        response = requests.get(url).json()

        file = open('weather_db.txt', 'a')
        text = f"{city}: {response['temperature']}\n"
        file.write(text)
        file.close()

This script simply gets the weather for a city and writes the city and the temperature into a file.
We can now run this function::

   $ python
   >>> from get_weather import get_weather
   >>> get_weather("Paris")

Running this function gives the expected output :

.. code-block:: text
   :caption: weather_db.txt

>    Paris : 21 °C

Author: remove the space before the colon

> With Remoulade, you can run this function asynchronously by using the |actor| decorator. Remoulade also requires RabbitMQ as a message broker. To configure it, instantiate a RabbitmqBroker and set it as the global broker, then declare the ``get_weather`` actor to the broker.

Author: add link for RabbitmqBroker (I think `|RabbitmqBroker|`) should work

   $ source env/bin/activate
   $ remoulade get_weather

After running this command, you will see these lines::

   [<datetime>] [MainThread] [remoulade] [INFO] Worker is ready for action.
   [<datetime>] [Thread-#] [remoulade.worker.WorkerThread] [INFO] Started Actor get_weather / <message>
   [<datetime>] [Thread-#] [remoulade.worker.WorkerThread] [INFO] Finished Actor get_weather / <message> after <process-time>ms.

These lines indicate that workers have spawned and that one of them has ran the function.

Using a Group of tasks
----------------------

In order to run multiple actors at once and gather their results or wait for all of them to finish, you can use a |group|.
For example, we can use it to get weather data for multiple cities at once::

   >>> from get_weather import get_weather
   >>> from remoulade import group
   >>> cities = ['Paris', 'Tokyo', 'Washington', 'Brasília', 'Johannesburg']
   >>> get_weather_group = group([get_weather.message(city) for city in cities])
   >>> get_weather_group.run()

This will enqueue several messages at once. You can track all the actors being run in the worker terminal.

Creating a Pipeline of tasks
----------------------------

> Actors can be chained using a pipeline. For instance, we could refactor our ``get_weather`` function into three separate functions : one to extract weather data from the weather-api, one to transform it into the desired format, and one to load it into a file.

Author: remove space before colon

   >>> weather_etl_pipeline = grp | load_cities.message()
   >>> weather_etl_pipeline.run()

Scheduling Messages
-------------------

Remoulade includes a scheduler that allows to periodically run actors. We can use it here to keep our weather data updated.

Let's get back to our ``get_weather`` function and add a scheduler to update the weather data every 10 seconds.

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: get_weather.py
   :emphasize-lines: 4, 21, 22, 24

   import requests
   import remoulade
   from remoulade.brokers.rabbitmq import RabbitmqBroker
   from remoulade.scheduler import ScheduledJob, Scheduler

   @remoulade.actor
   def get_weather(city):
        url = f"https://goweather.herokuapp.com/weather/{city}"

        response = requests.get(url).json()

        file = open('weather_db.txt', 'a')
        text = f"{city}: {response['temperature']}\n"
        file.write(text)
        file.close()

   rabbitmq_broker = RabbitmqBroker()
   remoulade.set_broker(rabbitmq_broker)
   scheduler = Scheduler(rabbitmq_broker, [ScheduledJob(actor_name="get_weather", args=("Paris",), interval=10)])
   remoulade.set_scheduler(scheduler)
   remoulade.declare_actors([get_weather])

>    scheduler.start()

Author: I think what you can do is to remove the start line and then do 
```python
scheduler = remoulade.get_scheduler()
scheduler.start()
```
in a python shell. What do you think?

Reviewer: This doesn't seem to be possible :
remoulade.errors.NoScheduler: Scheduler not found, are you sure you called set_scheduler(scheduler) ?

To set up the scheduler, we instantiate it, set it as the global scheduler, and finally start it.

If you run this script and get back to the worker terminal, you will see ``get_weather`` being executed every 10 seconds.

Monitoring and Managing your tasks
----------------------------------

To monitor and manage your tasks, you can use the Superbowl_ dashboard.

.. _Superbowl: https://github.com/wiremind/super-bowl

First, you will need to install Node.js_. Then, clone Superbowl_ in another directory, install its dependencies and run it::

   $ cd ..
   $ mkdir superbowl
   $ cd superbowl

>    $ git clone https://github.com/wiremind/super-bowl.git

Author: doesn't this already create a directory?

   $ npm install
   $ npm run serve

.. _Node.js: https://nodejs.org/en/download/

> Now, if you open ``localhost:8080`` in your browser, you will see the SuperBowl dashboard, but you will not see your messages yet. In order to see and manage them, you will have to modify the ``get_weather.py`` script.

Author: ... script to serve the remoulade api.
